#### [JavaScript](https://javascript.info/intro)

**JavaScript** was initially created to “make web pages alive”. The programs in this language are called scripts. They can be written right in a web page’s HTML and run automatically as the page loads. Scripts are provided and executed as plain text. They don’t need special preparation or compilation to run. Today, **JavaScript** can execute not only in the browser, but also on the server, or actually on any device that has a special program called the **JavaScript** engine. The browser has an embedded engine sometimes called a “JavaScript virtual machine”. 

- JavaScript is the most popular implementations of the ECMAScript Standard.
    
- The core features of Javascript are based on the ECMAScript standard,  but Javascript also has other additional features that are not in the ECMA specifications/standard.
    
- ActionScript and JScript are languages that implement the ECMAScript.
    
- JavaScript was submitted to ECMA for standardisation but due to trademark issues with the name Javascript the standard became called ECMAScript.
    
- Every browser has a JavaScript interpreter.
    

#### [Ecmascript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/ECMAScript)

ECMAScript is a scripting language specification on which JavaScript is based. ECMAScript standardized by the ECMA International standards organization in the ECMA-262 and ECMA-402 specifications.

- ECMAScript is a Standard for a scripting languages.
    
- Languages like JavaScript are based on the ECMAScript standard.
    
- ECMA Standard is based on several originating technologies, the most well known being JavaScript (Netscape) and JScript (Microsoft).
    
- ECMA means European Computer Manufacturer’s Association