### CONDITIONS
The code needs to make decisions and carry out actions accordingly depending on different inputs.

IF... ELSE
* The if statement executes a statement if a specified condition is truthy. If the condition is falsie, another statement can be executed.

ELSE IF
* Multiple if...else statements can be nested to create an "else if" clause. Note that there is no elseif (in one word) keyword.

TERNARY (conditional) OPERATOR
* The only JS operator that takes three operands: a condition followed by a question mark (?), then an expression to execute if the condition is truthy followed by a colon (:), and finally the expression to execute if the condition is falsy. This operator is frequently used as an alternative to an if...else statement.

SWITCH/CASE
* Evaluates an expression, matching the expression's value to a case clause, and executes statements associated with that case, as well as statements in cases that follow the matching case.

### LOOPS
Offer a quick and easy way to do something repeatedly.
You can think of a loop as a computerized version of the game where you tell someone to take X steps in one direction, then Y steps in another. For example, the idea "Go five steps to the east" could be expressed this way as a loop:
```JS
for (let step = 0; step < 5; step++) {
  // Run 5 times, with values of step 0 through 4.
  console.log('Walking east one step');
}
```

WHILE
* Creates a loop that executes a specified statement as long as the test condition evaluates to true. The condition is evaluated before executing the statement.

DO... WHILE
* Creates a loop that executes a specified statement until the test condition evaluates to false. The condition is evaluated after executing the statement, resulting in the specified statement executing at least once.

FOR
* Creates a loop that consists of three optional expressions, enclosed in parentheses and separated by semicolons, followed by a statement (usually a block statement) to be executed in the loop.

FOR... IN and FOR... OF
* for... in
	* Iterates over all enumerable properties of an object that are keyed by strings (ignoring ones keyed by Symbols), including inherited enumerable properties.
* for... of
	* Creates a loop iterating over iterable objects, including: built-in String, Array, array-like objects (e.g., arguments or NodeList), TypedArray, Map, Set, and user-defined iterables. It invokes a custom iteration hook with statements to be executed for the value of each distinct property of the object.